bonita/content.md, before:

# What is Bonita?

Bonita (called Bonita BPM till 7.5) is an open-source business process management and workflow suite created in 2001. It was started in France National Institute for Research in Computer Science, and then had incubated several years inside of the French computer science company Groupe Bull. Since 2009, the development of Bonita is supported by a company dedicated to this activity: Bonitasoft.

> [wikipedia.org/wiki/Bonita_BPM](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bonita_BPM)

%%LOGO%%

# How to use this image

## Quick start

```console
$ docker run --name bonita -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

This will start a container running [Bonita runtime](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/tomcat-bundle): a Tomcat bundle with Bonita Engine + Bonita Portal. With no environment variables specified, it's as if you have launched the bundle on your host using startup.{sh|bat} (with security hardening on REST and HTTP APIs, cf Security part). Bonita uses a H2 database here.

You can access the Bonita Portal on http://localhost:8080/bonita and login using the default credentials: install / install

## Link Bonita to a database

### PostgreSQL

PostgreSQL is the recommended database.

[Set max_prepared_transactions to 100](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/database-configuration#_postgresql):

```console
$ mkdir -p custom_postgres
$ echo '#!/bin/bash' > custom_postgres/bonita.sh
$ echo 'sed -i "s/^.*max_prepared_transactions\s*=\s*\(.*\)$/max_prepared_transactions = 100/" "$PGDATA"/postgresql.conf' >> custom_postgres/bonita.sh
$ chmod +x custom_postgres/bonita.sh
```

Mount that directory location as /docker-entrypoint-initdb.d inside the PostgreSQL container:

```console
$ docker run --name mydbpostgres -v "$PWD"/custom_postgres/:/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword -d postgres:11
```

See the [official PostgreSQL documentation](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres/) for more details.

```console
$ docker run --name bonita_postgres --link mydbpostgres:postgres -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

### MySQL

There are known issues with the management of XA transactions by MySQL engine and driver: see MySQL bug [17343](http://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=17343)

[Increase the packet size](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/database-configuration#_maximum_packet_size) which is set by default to 1M:

```console
$ mkdir -p custom_mysql
$ echo "[mysqld]" > custom_mysql/bonita.cnf
$ echo "max_allowed_packet=16M" >> custom_mysql/bonita.cnf
```

Mount that directory location as /etc/mysql/conf.d inside the MySQL container:

```console
$ docker run --name mydbmysql -v "$PWD"/custom_mysql/:/etc/mysql/conf.d -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword -d mysql:8.0
```

See the [official MySQL documentation](https://hub.docker.com/_/mysql/) for more details.

Start your application container to link it to the MySQL container:

```console
$ docker run --name bonita_mysql --link mydbmysql:mysql -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

## Modify default credentials

```console
$ docker run --name=bonita -e "TENANT_LOGIN=tech_user" -e "TENANT_PASSWORD=secret" -e "PLATFORM_LOGIN=pfadmin" -e "PLATFORM_PASSWORD=pfsecret" -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

Now you can access the Bonita Portal on localhost:8080/bonita and login using: `tech_user` / `secret`

## %%STACK%%

Run `docker stack deploy -c stack.yml %%REPO%%` (or `docker-compose -f stack.yml up`), wait for it to initialize completely, and visit `http://swarm-ip:8080`, `http://localhost:8080`, or `http://host-ip:8080` (as appropriate).

## Where to store data

Most of the data are stored in a database and can be stored outside the Bonita container as described above using the PostgreSQL or MySQL container. However, some data remains inside the Bonita bundle. Bonita Home is a folder, called `bonita`, which contains configuration, working, and temporary folders and files. There are also log files inside the `logs` folder till Bonita 7.8.

Important note: There are several ways to store data used by applications that run in Docker containers. We encourage users of the `%%REPO%%` images to familiarize themselves with the options available, including:

-	Let Docker manage the storage of your data [by writing the files to disk on the host system using its own internal volume management](https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/#adding-a-data-volume). This is the default and is easy and fairly transparent to the user. The downside is that the files may be hard to locate for tools and applications that run directly on the host system, i.e. outside containers.
-	Create a data directory on the host system (outside the container) and [mount this to a directory visible from inside the container](https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/#mount-a-host-directory-as-a-data-volume). This places the database files in a known location on the host system, and makes it easy for tools and applications on the host system to access the files. The downside is that the user needs to make sure that the directory exists, and that directory permissions and other security mechanisms on the host system are set up correctly.

The Docker documentation is a good starting point for understanding the different storage options and variations, and there are multiple blogs and forum postings that discuss and give advice in this area. We will simply show the basic procedure here for the latter option above:

1.	Create a data directory on a suitable volume on your host system, e.g. `/my/own/datadir`.
2.	Start your `%%REPO%%` container like this:

	docker run --name some-%%REPO%% -v /my/own/datadir:/opt/bonita -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%:tag

The `-v /my/own/datadir:/opt/bonita` part of the command mounts the `/my/own/datadir` directory from the underlying host system as `/opt/bonita` inside the container, where Bonita will deploy the bundle and write data files by default.

## Migrate from an earlier version of Bonita

-	Stop the container to perform a backup

	```console
	$ docker stop bonita_7.9.5_postgres
	```

-	For containers < 7.3.0 :

	-	Check where your data are stored

		```console
		$ docker inspect bonita_7.2.3_postgres
		[...]
		    "Mounts": [
		        {
		            "Source": "/home/user/Documents/Docker/Volumes/bonita_7.2.3_postgres",
		            "Destination": "/opt/bonita",
		            "Mode": "",
		            "RW": true
		        }
		    ],
		[...]
		```

	-	Copy data from the filesystem

		```console
		$ cp -r bonita_7.2.3_postgres bonita_migration
		```

-	Retrieve the DB container IP

	```console
	$ docker inspect --format '{{ .NetworkSettings.IPAddress }}' mydbpostgres
	172.17.0.26
	```

-	Dump the database

	```console
	$ export PGPASSWORD=mysecretpassword
	$ pg_dump -O -x -h 172.17.0.26 -U postgres bonitadb > /tmp/bonitadb.sql
	```

	Note that businessdb won't be updated with the migration tool but you may want to also backup/move it.

-	Load the dump

	```console
	$ export PGPASSWORD=mysecretpassword
	$ psql -U postgres -h 172.17.0.26 -d postgres -c "CREATE USER newbonitauser WITH PASSWORD 'newbonitapass';"
	$ psql -U postgres -h 172.17.0.26 -d postgres -c "CREATE DATABASE newbonitadb OWNER newbonitauser;"
	$ export PGPASSWORD=newbonitapass
	$ cat /tmp/bonitadb.sql | psql -U newbonitauser -h 172.17.0.26 newbonitadb
	```

-	Retrieve the last migration tool

	-	If you migrate to a version < 7.3.0

		-	get also the target version of the Bonita bundle

		```console
		cd bonita_migration
		wget https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-platform-releases/releases/download/2021.1/bonita-migration-distrib-2.54.0.zip
		wget https://download.forge.ow2.org/bonita/BonitaBPMCommunity-7.2.4-Tomcat-7.0.67.zip
		unzip bonita-migration-distrib-2.54.0.zip
		unzip BonitaBPMCommunity-7.2.4-Tomcat-7.0.67.zip
		```

		-	Move the previous Home into the new bundle

		```console
		mv BonitaBPMCommunity-7.2.4-Tomcat-7.0.67/bonita/ BonitaBPMCommunity-7.2.4-Tomcat-7.0.67/bonita.orig
		cp -r BonitaBPMCommunity-7.2.3-Tomcat-7.0.67/bonita/ BonitaBPMCommunity-7.2.4-Tomcat-7.0.67/bonita/
		```

	-	If you migrate to a version >= 7.3.0

		```console
		cd bonita_migration
		wget https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-platform-releases/releases/download/2021.1/bonita-migration-distrib-2.54.0.zip
		unzip bonita-migration-distrib-2.54.0.zip
		```

-	Configure the migration tool

	```console
	$ cd bonita-migration-distrib-2.54.0
	```

	edit the migration tool config to point towards the copy of bonita home and db

	```console
	$ vim Config.properties
	```

	For example :

		db.vendor=postgres
		db.url=jdbc:postgresql://172.17.0.26:5432/newbonitadb
		db.driverClass=org.postgresql.Driver
		db.user=newbonitauser
		db.password=newbonitapass
		# location of the bonita home (only useful when migration from version before 7.3.0)
		bonita.home=/home/user/Documents/Docker/Volumes/bonita_migration/BonitaBPMCommunity-7.2.3-Tomcat-7.0.67/bonita

-	Launch the migration

	```console
	$ cd bin
	$ ./bonita-migration-distrib
	```

-	Launch the new container pointing towards the copy of DB and filesystem

	-	If < 7.3.0

	```console
	$ docker run --name=bonita_7.2.4_postgres --link mydbpostgres:postgres -e "DB_NAME=newbonitadb" -e "DB_USER=newbonitauser" -e "DB_PASS=newbonitapass" -v "$PWD"/bonita_migration:/opt/bonita/ -d -p 8081:8080 %%IMAGE%%:7.2.4
	```

	-	If >= 7.3.0

	```console
	$ docker run --name=bonita_7.12.1_postgres --link mydbpostgres:postgres -e "DB_NAME=newbonitadb" -e "DB_USER=newbonitauser" -e "DB_PASS=newbonitapass" -d -p 8081:8080 %%IMAGE%%:7.12.1
	```

-	Reapply specific configuration if needed, for example with a version >= 7.3.0 :

	```console
	$ docker exec -ti bonita_7.12.1_postgres /bin/bash
	```

	```console
	$ cd /opt/bonita/BonitaCommunity-2021.1/setup
	$ ./setup.sh pull
	$ TENANT_LOGIN=tech_user
	$ TENANT_PASSWORD=secret
	$ PLATFORM_LOGIN=pfadmin
	$ PLATFORM_PASSWORD=pfsecret
	$ sed -e 's/^#userName\s*=.*/'"userName=${TENANT_LOGIN}"'/' \
	      -e 's/^#userPassword\s*=.*/'"userPassword=${TENANT_PASSWORD}"'/' \
	      -i platform_conf/current/tenants/1/tenant_engine/bonita-tenant-community-custom.properties
	$ sed -e 's/^platform.tenant.default.username\s*=.*/'"platform.tenant.default.username=${TENANT_LOGIN}"'/' \
	      -e 's/^platform.tenant.default.password\s*=.*/'"platform.tenant.default.password=${TENANT_PASSWORD}"'/' \
	      -i platform_conf/current/platform_portal/platform-tenant-config.properties
	$ sed -e 's/^#platformAdminUsername\s*=.*/'"platformAdminUsername=${PLATFORM_LOGIN}"'/' \
	      -e 's/^#platformAdminPassword\s*=.*/'"platformAdminPassword=${PLATFORM_PASSWORD}"'/' \
	      -i platform_conf/current/platform_engine/bonita-platform-community-custom.properties
	$ sed -i -e 's/^#GET|/GET|/' -e 's/^#POST|/POST|/' -e 's/^#PUT|/PUT|/' -e 's/^#DELETE|/DELETE|/' -i platform_conf/current/tenants/1/tenant_portal/dynamic-permissions-checks.properties
	$ ./setup.sh push
	```

	```console
	$ docker restart bonita_7.12.1_postgres
	```

-	Specific consideration regarding migration to Java 11 in Bonita 7.9

	Bonita 7.9 docker image runs with Java 11. If you are migrating from an earlier version which runs Java 8, you should validate on a test environment that your custom code is compatible. Aside from just code incompatibility, special attention has to be given to the dependencies of the custom code, as they might not work in Java 11.

For more details regarding Bonita migration, see the [documentation](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/migrate-from-an-earlier-version-of-bonita-bpm).

## Security

This Docker image activates both static and dynamic authorization checks by default on REST API. To be consistent, it also deactivates the HTTP API.

-	REST API authorization

	-	[Static authorization checking](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/rest-api-authorization#static_authorization)

	-	[Dynamic authorization checking](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/rest-api-authorization#dynamic_authorization)

-	[HTTP API](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/rest-api-authorization#_activating_and_deactivating_authorization)

For specific needs you can override this behavior by setting HTTP_API to true and REST_API_DYN_AUTH_CHECKS to false:

```console
$ docker run  -e HTTP_API=true -e REST_API_DYN_AUTH_CHECKS=false --name bonita -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

## Environment variables

When you start the `bonita` image, you can adjust the configuration of the Bonita instance by passing one or more environment variables on the `docker run` command line.

### `PLATFORM_PASSWORD`

This environment variable [is recommended](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/tomcat-bundle#_platform_administrator) for you to use the Bonita image. It sets the platform administrator password for Bonita. If it is not specified, the default password `platform` will be used.

### `PLATFORM_LOGIN`

This optional environment variable is used in conjunction with `PLATFORM_PASSWORD` to define the username for the platform administrator. If it is not specified, the default user `platformAdmin` will be used.

### `TENANT_PASSWORD`

This environment variable [is recommended](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/tomcat-bundle#_tenant_administrator) for you to use the Bonita image. It sets the tenant administrator password for Bonita. If it is not specified, the default password `install` will be used.

### `TENANT_LOGIN`

This optional environment variable is used in conjunction with `TENANT_PASSWORD` to define the username for the tenant administrator. If it is not specified, the default user of `install` will be used.

### `REST_API_DYN_AUTH_CHECKS`

This optional environment variable is used to enable/disable [dynamic authorization checking](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/rest-api-authorization#dynamic_authorization) on Bonita REST API. The default value is `true`, which will activate dynamic authorization checking.

### `HTTP_API`

This optional environment variable is used to enable/disable the Bonita HTTP API. The default value is `false`, which will deactivate the HTTP API.

### `JAVA_OPTS`

This optional environment variable is used to customize JAVA_OPTS. The default value is `-Xms1024m -Xmx1024m -XX:MaxPermSize=256m`.

### `ENSURE_DB_CHECK_AND_CREATION`

This optional environment variable is used to allow/disallow the SQL queries to automatically check and create the databases using the database administrator credentials. The default value is `true`.

### `DB_VENDOR`

This environment variable is automatically set to `postgres` or `mysql` if the Bonita container is linked to a PostgreSQL or MySQL database using `--link`. The default value is `h2`. It can be overridden if you don't use the `--link` capability.

### `DB_HOST`, `DB_PORT`

These variables are optional, used in conjunction to configure the `bonita` image to reach the database instance. There are automatically set if `--link` is used to run the container.

### `DB_NAME`, `DB_USER`, `DB_PASS`

These variables are used in conjunction to create a new user, set that user's password, and create the `bonita` database.

`DB_NAME` default value is `bonitadb`.

`DB_USER` default value is `bonitauser`.

`DB_PASS` default value is `bonitapass`.

### `BIZ_DB_NAME`, `BIZ_DB_USER`, `BIZ_DB_PASS`

These variables are used in conjunction to create a new user, set that user's password and create the `bonita` [business database](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/define-and-deploy-the-bdm#_business_data_model_bdm).

`BIZ_DB_NAME` default value is `businessdb`.

`BIZ_DB_USER` default value is `businessuser`.

`BIZ_DB_PASS` default value is `businesspass`.

### `DB_ADMIN_USER`, `DB_ADMIN_PASS`

These variables are optional, and used in conjunction to create users and databases through the administrator account used on the database instance.

`DB_ADMIN_USER` if no value is provided, this is automatically set to `root` with MySQL or `postgres` with PostgreSQL.

`DB_ADMIN_PASS` if no value is provided, this is automatically set using the value from the linked container: `MYSQL_ENV_MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD` or `POSTGRES_ENV_POSTGRES_PASSWORD`.

### `DB_DROP_EXISTING`, `BIZ_DB_DROP_EXISTING`

`DB_DROP_EXISTING` and `BIZ_DB_DROP_EXISTING` can be used to drop existing databases in order to reuse an existing database instance.

`DB_DROP_EXISTING` default value is `N`.

`BIZ_DB_DROP_EXISTING` default value is `N`.

### `BONITA_SERVER_LOGGING_FILE`, `BONITA_SETUP_LOGGING_FILE`

Since Bonita 7.9 `BONITA_SERVER_LOGGING_FILE` and `BONITA_SETUP_LOGGING_FILE` can be used to update logging configuration.

`BONITA_SERVER_LOGGING_FILE` default value is `/opt/bonita/BonitaSubscription-${BONITA_VERSION}/server/conf/logging.properties`.

`BONITA_SETUP_LOGGING_FILE` default value is `/opt/bonita/BonitaSubscription-${BONITA_VERSION}/setup/logback.xml`.

# How to extend this image

If you would like to do additional initialization, you can add a `*.sh` script under `/opt/custom-init.d`. The `startup.sh` file will source any `*.sh` script found in this directory to do further initialization before starting the service.

For example, you can increase the log level :

```console
$ mkdir -p custom_bonita
$ echo '#!/bin/bash' > custom_bonita/bonita.sh
$ echo 'sed -i "s/^org.bonitasoft.level = WARNING$/org.bonitasoft.level = FINEST/" /opt/bonita/BonitaCommunity-2021.1/server/conf/logging.properties' >> custom_bonita/bonita.sh
$ chmod +x custom_bonita/bonita.sh

$ docker run --name bonita_custom -v "$PWD"/custom_bonita/:/opt/custom-init.d -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

Since Bonita 7.9 you can also apply a custom `logging.properties` file like this :

```console
docker run --name bonita \
  -v /path/to/logging.properties:/etc/logging.properties -e BONITA_SERVER_LOGGING_FILE=/etc/logging.properties \
  -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

Note: There are several ways to check the `bonita` logs. Till Bonita 7.8, one of them is

```console
$ docker exec -ti bonita_custom /bin/bash
tail -f /opt/bonita/BonitaCommunity-2021.1/server/logs/bonita.`date +%Y-%m-%d`.log
```

Since Bonita 7.9 bonita logs are redirected towards standard output and directly accessible using

```console
$ docker logs -f bonita
```

Commit message:

feat(doc): Update documentation for the bonita docker image
Describe how to create a Postgres database to use with a Bonita docker

bonita/content.md, after:

# What is Bonita?

Bonita (called Bonita BPM till 7.5) is an open-source business process management and workflow suite created in 2001. It was started in France National Institute for Research in Computer Science, and then had incubated several years inside of the French computer science company Groupe Bull. Since 2009, the development of Bonita is supported by a company dedicated to this activity: Bonitasoft.

> [wikipedia.org/wiki/Bonita_BPM](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bonita_BPM)

%%LOGO%%

# How to use this image

## Quick start

```console
$ docker run --name bonita -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

This will start a container running [Bonita runtime](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/tomcat-bundle): a Tomcat bundle with Bonita Engine + Bonita Portal. With no environment variables specified, it's as if you have launched the bundle on your host using startup.{sh|bat} (with security hardening on REST and HTTP APIs, cf Security part). Bonita uses a H2 database here.

You can access the Bonita Portal on http://localhost:8080/bonita and login using the default credentials: install / install

## Link Bonita to a database

### PostgreSQL

PostgreSQL is the recommended database. Note that from Bonita 2022.1 onwards, the Bonita docker image does not include configuration scripts for Postgres
Therefore the PostgreSQL container needs to be configured to work with Bonita before starting the Bonita container.
The configuration of a PostgreSQL database to work with Bonita is described in detail in the [database configuration page](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.2/database-configuration)
Alternatively, Bonita provides a preconfigured [postgres image](https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/bonitasoft/bonita-postgres) on docker-hub
You can run the image with the following command

[Set max_prepared_transactions to 100](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.2/database-configuration#_postgresql):

```console
docker run --name mydbpostgres -h <hostname> -v bonita-lic:/opt/bonita_lic/ -d bonitasoft/bonita-postgres:12.6
```

This image is built from the following [github repository](https://github.com/Bonitasoft-Community/bonita-database-docker/tree/main/postgres/12), which can be further adapted/customized to suit your needs.

### MySQL

There are known issues with the management of XA transactions by MySQL engine and driver: see MySQL bug [17343](http://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=17343)

[Increase the packet size](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/database-configuration#_maximum_packet_size) which is set by default to 1M:

```console
$ mkdir -p custom_mysql
$ echo "[mysqld]" > custom_mysql/bonita.cnf
$ echo "max_allowed_packet=16M" >> custom_mysql/bonita.cnf
```

Mount that directory location as /etc/mysql/conf.d inside the MySQL container:

```console
$ docker run --name mydbmysql -v "$PWD"/custom_mysql/:/etc/mysql/conf.d -e MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD=mysecretpassword -d mysql:8.0
```

See the [official MySQL documentation](https://hub.docker.com/_/mysql/) for more details.

Start your application container to link it to the MySQL container:

```console
$ docker run --name bonita_mysql --link mydbmysql:mysql -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

## Modify default credentials

```console
$ docker run --name=bonita -e "TENANT_LOGIN=tech_user" -e "TENANT_PASSWORD=secret" -e "PLATFORM_LOGIN=pfadmin" -e "PLATFORM_PASSWORD=pfsecret" -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

Now you can access the Bonita Portal on localhost:8080/bonita and login using: `tech_user` / `secret`

## %%STACK%%

Run `docker stack deploy -c stack.yml %%REPO%%` (or `docker-compose -f stack.yml up`), wait for it to initialize completely, and visit `http://swarm-ip:8080`, `http://localhost:8080`, or `http://host-ip:8080` (as appropriate).

## Where to store data

Most of the data are stored in a database and can be stored outside the Bonita container as described above using the PostgreSQL or MySQL container. However, some data remains inside the Bonita bundle. Bonita Home is a folder, called `bonita`, which contains configuration, working, and temporary folders and files. There are also log files inside the `logs` folder till Bonita 7.8.

Important note: There are several ways to store data used by applications that run in Docker containers. We encourage users of the `%%REPO%%` images to familiarize themselves with the options available, including:

-	Let Docker manage the storage of your data [by writing the files to disk on the host system using its own internal volume management](https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/#adding-a-data-volume). This is the default and is easy and fairly transparent to the user. The downside is that the files may be hard to locate for tools and applications that run directly on the host system, i.e. outside containers.
-	Create a data directory on the host system (outside the container) and [mount this to a directory visible from inside the container](https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/#mount-a-host-directory-as-a-data-volume). This places the database files in a known location on the host system, and makes it easy for tools and applications on the host system to access the files. The downside is that the user needs to make sure that the directory exists, and that directory permissions and other security mechanisms on the host system are set up correctly.

The Docker documentation is a good starting point for understanding the different storage options and variations, and there are multiple blogs and forum postings that discuss and give advice in this area. We will simply show the basic procedure here for the latter option above:

1.	Create a data directory on a suitable volume on your host system, e.g. `/my/own/datadir`.
2.	Start your `%%REPO%%` container like this:

	docker run --name some-%%REPO%% -v /my/own/datadir:/opt/bonita -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%:tag

The `-v /my/own/datadir:/opt/bonita` part of the command mounts the `/my/own/datadir` directory from the underlying host system as `/opt/bonita` inside the container, where Bonita will deploy the bundle and write data files by default.

## Migrate from an earlier version of Bonita

-	Stop the container to perform a backup

	```console
	$ docker stop bonita_7.9.5_postgres
	```

-	For containers < 7.3.0 :

	-	Check where your data are stored

		```console
		$ docker inspect bonita_7.2.3_postgres
		[...]
		    "Mounts": [
		        {
		            "Source": "/home/user/Documents/Docker/Volumes/bonita_7.2.3_postgres",
		            "Destination": "/opt/bonita",
		            "Mode": "",
		            "RW": true
		        }
		    ],
		[...]
		```

	-	Copy data from the filesystem

		```console
		$ cp -r bonita_7.2.3_postgres bonita_migration
		```

-	Retrieve the DB container IP

	```console
	$ docker inspect --format '{{ .NetworkSettings.IPAddress }}' mydbpostgres
	172.17.0.26
	```

-	Dump the database

	```console
	$ export PGPASSWORD=mysecretpassword
	$ pg_dump -O -x -h 172.17.0.26 -U postgres bonitadb > /tmp/bonitadb.sql
	```

	Note that businessdb won't be updated with the migration tool but you may want to also backup/move it.

-	Load the dump

	```console
	$ export PGPASSWORD=mysecretpassword
	$ psql -U postgres -h 172.17.0.26 -d postgres -c "CREATE USER newbonitauser WITH PASSWORD 'newbonitapass';"
	$ psql -U postgres -h 172.17.0.26 -d postgres -c "CREATE DATABASE newbonitadb OWNER newbonitauser;"
	$ export PGPASSWORD=newbonitapass
	$ cat /tmp/bonitadb.sql | psql -U newbonitauser -h 172.17.0.26 newbonitadb
	```

-	Retrieve the last migration tool

	-	If you migrate to a version < 7.3.0

		-	get also the target version of the Bonita bundle

		```console
		cd bonita_migration
		wget https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-platform-releases/releases/download/2021.1/bonita-migration-distrib-2.54.0.zip
		wget https://download.forge.ow2.org/bonita/BonitaBPMCommunity-7.2.4-Tomcat-7.0.67.zip
		unzip bonita-migration-distrib-2.54.0.zip
		unzip BonitaBPMCommunity-7.2.4-Tomcat-7.0.67.zip
		```

		-	Move the previous Home into the new bundle

		```console
		mv BonitaBPMCommunity-7.2.4-Tomcat-7.0.67/bonita/ BonitaBPMCommunity-7.2.4-Tomcat-7.0.67/bonita.orig
		cp -r BonitaBPMCommunity-7.2.3-Tomcat-7.0.67/bonita/ BonitaBPMCommunity-7.2.4-Tomcat-7.0.67/bonita/
		```

	-	If you migrate to a version >= 7.3.0

		```console
		cd bonita_migration
		wget https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-platform-releases/releases/download/2021.1/bonita-migration-distrib-2.54.0.zip
		unzip bonita-migration-distrib-2.54.0.zip
		```

-	Configure the migration tool

	```console
	$ cd bonita-migration-distrib-2.54.0
	```

	edit the migration tool config to point towards the copy of bonita home and db

	```console
	$ vim Config.properties
	```

	For example :

		db.vendor=postgres
		db.url=jdbc:postgresql://172.17.0.26:5432/newbonitadb
		db.driverClass=org.postgresql.Driver
		db.user=newbonitauser
		db.password=newbonitapass
		# location of the bonita home (only useful when migration from version before 7.3.0)
		bonita.home=/home/user/Documents/Docker/Volumes/bonita_migration/BonitaBPMCommunity-7.2.3-Tomcat-7.0.67/bonita

-	Launch the migration

	```console
	$ cd bin
	$ ./bonita-migration-distrib
	```

-	Launch the new container pointing towards the copy of DB and filesystem

	-	If < 7.3.0

	```console
	$ docker run --name=bonita_7.2.4_postgres --link mydbpostgres:postgres -e "DB_NAME=newbonitadb" -e "DB_USER=newbonitauser" -e "DB_PASS=newbonitapass" -v "$PWD"/bonita_migration:/opt/bonita/ -d -p 8081:8080 %%IMAGE%%:7.2.4
	```

	-	If >= 7.3.0

	```console
	$ docker run --name=bonita_7.12.1_postgres --link mydbpostgres:postgres -e "DB_NAME=newbonitadb" -e "DB_USER=newbonitauser" -e "DB_PASS=newbonitapass" -d -p 8081:8080 %%IMAGE%%:7.12.1
	```

-	Reapply specific configuration if needed, for example with a version >= 7.3.0 :

	```console
	$ docker exec -ti bonita_7.12.1_postgres /bin/bash
	```

	```console
	$ cd /opt/bonita/BonitaCommunity-2021.1/setup
	$ ./setup.sh pull
	$ TENANT_LOGIN=tech_user
	$ TENANT_PASSWORD=secret
	$ PLATFORM_LOGIN=pfadmin
	$ PLATFORM_PASSWORD=pfsecret
	$ sed -e 's/^#userName\s*=.*/'"userName=${TENANT_LOGIN}"'/' \
	      -e 's/^#userPassword\s*=.*/'"userPassword=${TENANT_PASSWORD}"'/' \
	      -i platform_conf/current/tenants/1/tenant_engine/bonita-tenant-community-custom.properties
	$ sed -e 's/^platform.tenant.default.username\s*=.*/'"platform.tenant.default.username=${TENANT_LOGIN}"'/' \
	      -e 's/^platform.tenant.default.password\s*=.*/'"platform.tenant.default.password=${TENANT_PASSWORD}"'/' \
	      -i platform_conf/current/platform_portal/platform-tenant-config.properties
	$ sed -e 's/^#platformAdminUsername\s*=.*/'"platformAdminUsername=${PLATFORM_LOGIN}"'/' \
	      -e 's/^#platformAdminPassword\s*=.*/'"platformAdminPassword=${PLATFORM_PASSWORD}"'/' \
	      -i platform_conf/current/platform_engine/bonita-platform-community-custom.properties
	$ sed -i -e 's/^#GET|/GET|/' -e 's/^#POST|/POST|/' -e 's/^#PUT|/PUT|/' -e 's/^#DELETE|/DELETE|/' -i platform_conf/current/tenants/1/tenant_portal/dynamic-permissions-checks.properties
	$ ./setup.sh push
	```

	```console
	$ docker restart bonita_7.12.1_postgres
	```

-	Specific consideration regarding migration to Java 11 in Bonita 7.9

	Bonita 7.9 docker image runs with Java 11. If you are migrating from an earlier version which runs Java 8, you should validate on a test environment that your custom code is compatible. Aside from just code incompatibility, special attention has to be given to the dependencies of the custom code, as they might not work in Java 11.

For more details regarding Bonita migration, see the [documentation](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/migrate-from-an-earlier-version-of-bonita-bpm).

## Security

This Docker image activates both static and dynamic authorization checks by default on REST API. To be consistent, it also deactivates the HTTP API.

-	REST API authorization

	-	[Static authorization checking](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/rest-api-authorization#static_authorization)

	-	[Dynamic authorization checking](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/rest-api-authorization#dynamic_authorization)

-	[HTTP API](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/rest-api-authorization#_activating_and_deactivating_authorization)

For specific needs you can override this behavior by setting HTTP_API to true and REST_API_DYN_AUTH_CHECKS to false:

```console
$ docker run  -e HTTP_API=true -e REST_API_DYN_AUTH_CHECKS=false --name bonita -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

## Environment variables

When you start the `bonita` image, you can adjust the configuration of the Bonita instance by passing one or more environment variables on the `docker run` command line.

### `PLATFORM_PASSWORD`

This environment variable [is recommended](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/tomcat-bundle#_platform_administrator) for you to use the Bonita image. It sets the platform administrator password for Bonita. If it is not specified, the default password `platform` will be used.

### `PLATFORM_LOGIN`

This optional environment variable is used in conjunction with `PLATFORM_PASSWORD` to define the username for the platform administrator. If it is not specified, the default user `platformAdmin` will be used.

### `TENANT_PASSWORD`

This environment variable [is recommended](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/tomcat-bundle#_tenant_administrator) for you to use the Bonita image. It sets the tenant administrator password for Bonita. If it is not specified, the default password `install` will be used.

### `TENANT_LOGIN`

This optional environment variable is used in conjunction with `TENANT_PASSWORD` to define the username for the tenant administrator. If it is not specified, the default user of `install` will be used.

### `REST_API_DYN_AUTH_CHECKS`

This optional environment variable is used to enable/disable [dynamic authorization checking](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/rest-api-authorization#dynamic_authorization) on Bonita REST API. The default value is `true`, which will activate dynamic authorization checking.

### `HTTP_API`

This optional environment variable is used to enable/disable the Bonita HTTP API. The default value is `false`, which will deactivate the HTTP API.

### `JAVA_OPTS`

This optional environment variable is used to customize JAVA_OPTS. The default value is `-Xms1024m -Xmx1024m -XX:MaxPermSize=256m`.

### `DB_VENDOR`

This environment variable is automatically set to `postgres` or `mysql` if the Bonita container is linked to a PostgreSQL or MySQL database using `--link`. The default value is `h2`. It can be overridden if you don't use the `--link` capability.

### `DB_HOST`, `DB_PORT`

These variables are optional, used in conjunction to configure the `bonita` image to reach the database instance. There are automatically set if `--link` is used to run the container.

### `DB_NAME`, `DB_USER`, `DB_PASS`

These variables are used in conjunction to create a new user, set that user's password, and create the `bonita` database.

`DB_NAME` default value is `bonitadb`.

`DB_USER` default value is `bonitauser`.

`DB_PASS` default value is `bonitapass`.

### `BIZ_DB_NAME`, `BIZ_DB_USER`, `BIZ_DB_PASS`

These variables are used in conjunction to create a new user, set that user's password and create the `bonita` [business database](https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/2021.1/define-and-deploy-the-bdm#_business_data_model_bdm).

`BIZ_DB_NAME` default value is `businessdb`.

`BIZ_DB_USER` default value is `businessuser`.

`BIZ_DB_PASS` default value is `businesspass`.

### `DB_ADMIN_USER`, `DB_ADMIN_PASS`

These variables are optional, and used in conjunction to create users and databases through the administrator account used on the database instance.

`DB_ADMIN_USER` if no value is provided, this is automatically set to `root` with MySQL or `postgres` with PostgreSQL.

`DB_ADMIN_PASS` if no value is provided, this is automatically set using the value from the linked container: `MYSQL_ENV_MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD` or `POSTGRES_ENV_POSTGRES_PASSWORD`.

### `DB_DROP_EXISTING`, `BIZ_DB_DROP_EXISTING`

`DB_DROP_EXISTING` and `BIZ_DB_DROP_EXISTING` can be used to drop existing databases in order to reuse an existing database instance.

`DB_DROP_EXISTING` default value is `N`.

`BIZ_DB_DROP_EXISTING` default value is `N`.

### `BONITA_SERVER_LOGGING_FILE`, `BONITA_SETUP_LOGGING_FILE`

Since Bonita 7.9 `BONITA_SERVER_LOGGING_FILE` and `BONITA_SETUP_LOGGING_FILE` can be used to update logging configuration.

`BONITA_SERVER_LOGGING_FILE` default value is `/opt/bonita/BonitaSubscription-${BONITA_VERSION}/server/conf/logging.properties`.

`BONITA_SETUP_LOGGING_FILE` default value is `/opt/bonita/BonitaSubscription-${BONITA_VERSION}/setup/logback.xml`.

# How to extend this image

If you would like to do additional initialization, you can add a `*.sh` script under `/opt/custom-init.d`. The `startup.sh` file will source any `*.sh` script found in this directory to do further initialization before starting the service.

For example, you can increase the log level :

```console
$ mkdir -p custom_bonita
$ echo '#!/bin/bash' > custom_bonita/bonita.sh
$ echo 'sed -i "s/^org.bonitasoft.level = WARNING$/org.bonitasoft.level = FINEST/" /opt/bonita/BonitaCommunity-2021.1/server/conf/logging.properties' >> custom_bonita/bonita.sh
$ chmod +x custom_bonita/bonita.sh

$ docker run --name bonita_custom -v "$PWD"/custom_bonita/:/opt/custom-init.d -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

Since Bonita 7.9 you can also apply a custom `logging.properties` file like this :

```console
docker run --name bonita \
  -v /path/to/logging.properties:/etc/logging.properties -e BONITA_SERVER_LOGGING_FILE=/etc/logging.properties \
  -d -p 8080:8080 %%IMAGE%%
```

Note: There are several ways to check the `bonita` logs. Till Bonita 7.8, one of them is

```console
$ docker exec -ti bonita_custom /bin/bash
tail -f /opt/bonita/BonitaCommunity-2021.1/server/logs/bonita.`date +%Y-%m-%d`.log
```

Since Bonita 7.9 bonita logs are redirected towards standard output and directly accessible using

```console
$ docker logs -f bonita
```
